docs: email contact point (#85627)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/alerting/configure-notifications/manage-contact-points/integrations/configure-email.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/alerting/configure-notifications/manage-contact-points/integrations/configure-email/
description: Configure email integration to send email notifications when your alerts are firing
keywords:
  - grafana
  - alerting
  - email
  - integration
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Email
title: Configure email for Alerting
weight: 300
---

> ## Configure Email for Alerting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure email for Alerting
```

Use the Grafana Alerting - email integration to send email notifications when your alerts are firing. An email is sent when an alert fires and when an alert gets resolved.

## Before you begin

> When utilizing Grafana OSS, enabling email notifications requires configuring [SMTP settings][smtp-settings] in the Grafana configuration settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Grafana OSS, you enable email notifications by first configuring [SMTP settings][smtp-settings] in the Grafana configuration settings.
```

> {{<admonition type="note">}}

Reviewer: can you put this note directly under "before you begin"?

> This section is for Grafana OSS only. For Grafana Cloud SMTP configuration is not required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section is for Grafana OSS only. For Grafana Cloud, SMTP configuration is not required.
```

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/alerting/configure-notifications/manage-contact-points/integrations/configure-email/

> description: Configure the Email integration to connect alerts generated by Grafana Alerting

Reviewer: Configure email integration to send email notifications when your alerts are firing

keywords:
  - grafana
  - alerting
  - email
  - integration
labels:
  products:
    - cloud
    - enterprise
    - oss
menuTitle: Email

> title: Configure Email for Alerting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Configure email for Alerting
```

weight: 300
---

## Configure Email for Alerting

Use the Grafana Alerting - email integration to send email notifications when your alerts are firing. An email is sent when an alert fires and when an alert gets resolved.

## Before you begin

> When utilizing Grafana OSS, enabling email notifications requires configuring [SMTP settings][smtp-settings] in the Grafana configuration settings. In contrast, for users of Grafana Cloud, SMTP configuration is not required.

Reviewer: Add a note here 

Note:
This section is for Grafana OSS only. For Grafana Cloud, STMP configuration is not required.

### SMTP configuration

1. **Access the Configuration File.**

   Locate the Grafana configuration file. This file is typically named `grafana.ini` or `custom.ini` and is located in the `conf` directory within the Grafana installation directory.

1. **Open the Configuration File:**

   Open the configuration file using a text editor.

1. **Locate SMTP Settings Section.**

   Search for the [SMTP settings section][smtp-settings] in the configuration file. It starts with `[smtp]`.

> 1. **Configure SMTP Settings.**

Reviewer: are these all screen elements? we only bold screen elements in this case

Author: nope they are not but i thought it increases readability.
i will "unbold" 😃  them

   Within the `[smtp]` settings section, specify the following parameters:

   - `enabled = true`: Enables SMTP.
   - `host`: The hostname or IP address of your SMTP server, and the port number of your SMTP server (commonly 25, 465, or 587). Default is `localhost:25`.
   - `user`: Your SMTP username (if authentication is required).
   - `password`: Your SMTP password (if authentication is required).
   - `from_address`: The email address from which Grafana notifications will be sent.
   - `from_name`: The name associated with the from_address.
   - `skip_verify = true`: Skip SSL/TLS certificate verification (useful for testing, but not recommended for production).

> 1. **Save and Close the Configuration File.**

Reviewer: same comment as above

Author: ok here at least i will keep the code format so readers differentiate each element

Author: never mind, i see now you meant the  
1. **Save and Close the Configuration File.**

 not the above text

   After configuring the SMTP settings, save the changes to the configuration file and close the text editor.

1. **Restart Grafana.**

   Restart the Grafana service to apply the changes made to the configuration file. The method for restarting Grafana depends on your operating system and how Grafana was installed (e.g., `systemctl restart grafana-server` for systems using systemd).

1. **Test Email Notifications.**

   After restarting Grafana, test the email notification functionality by creating an email contact point.

## Procedure

To set up email integration, complete the following steps.

1. Navigate to **Alerts & IRM** -> **Alerting** -> **Contact points**.
1. Click **+ Add contact point**.
1. Enter a contact point name.
1. From the Integration list, select Email.
1. Enter the email addresses you want to send notifications to.
1. Click **Test** to check that your integration works.
1. Click Save contact point.

## Next steps

> To add the contact point and integration you created to your default **Notification policy**, complete the following steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add the contact point and integration you created to your default notification policy, complete the following steps.
```

   - `user`: Your SMTP username (if authentication is required).
   - `password`: Your SMTP password (if authentication is required).
   - `from_address`: The email address from which Grafana notifications will be sent.
   - `from_name`: The name associated with the from_address.
   - `skip_verify = true`: Skip SSL/TLS certificate verification (useful for testing, but not recommended for production).

1. Save and Close the Configuration File.

   After configuring the SMTP settings, save the changes to the configuration file and close the text editor.

1. Restart Grafana.

   Restart the Grafana service to apply the changes made to the configuration file. The method for restarting Grafana depends on your operating system and how Grafana was installed (e.g., `systemctl restart grafana-server` for systems using systemd).

1. Test Email Notifications.

   After restarting Grafana, test the email notification functionality by creating an email contact point.

## Procedure

To set up email integration, complete the following steps.

1. Navigate to **Alerts & IRM** -> **Alerting** -> **Contact points**.
1. Click **+ Add contact point**.
1. Enter a contact point name.

> 1. From the Integration list, select Email.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the Integration list, select **Email**.
```

1. Enter the email addresses you want to send notifications to.
1. Click **Test** to check that your integration works.

> 1. Click Save contact point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click **Save contact point**.
```
